# History

The next section gives a historical perspective of JS and provides context about the various
entities involved in the creation of JavaScript.

Though the next section can be potentially long, it is suggested to go through it for better
understanding however it can be skipped without any loss of information.

## Background story

Back in the 1990's when the World Wide Web was new and the Internet was in its infancy, different
companies were in a race to create the *best and the most popular* browser in order to browse the
Internet.

In 1993, the [NCSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Center_for_Supercomputing_Applications)
came up with the first ever graphical web browser named *NCSA Mosaic*. It helped a lot in expansion
and popularizing the World Wide Web.

In 1994, a company called *Mosaic Communications* was formed which employed many authors of the NCSA
Mosaic to create a browser with the aim of dominating the web-browser market. Their product was known
as *Mosaic Netscape*. The company was later renamed as *Netscape Communications* and the browser was
renamed as *Netscape Navigator* to avoid trademark problems with NCSA.

The founder of Netscape Communications, Marc Andreessen, felt the need of a language that was easy
to use by web developers and designers to generate dynamic content on web pages. JavaScript was born
from this need.

## Creation

In 1995, **Brendan Eich** was recruited by *Netscape Communications* with the goal of embedding the
*Scheme programming language* into its *Netsacpe Navigator*, then the most popular web browser. The
goal of this job was to create a lightweight and easy to use programming (read scripting) language
that can run in the browser environment and is able to generate dynamic content in web pages.

At that time Netscape Communications was already collaborating with *Sun Microsystems* to include
the latter's Java in order to compete with *Microsoft* for user adoption of its technologies and
platforms. So Netscape Communications decided that the new  scripting language to be created must
complement Java and have similar syntax but not adopt other scripting languages of the time like
Perl, Python, TCL or Scheme. Within 10 days, in May 1995, Brendan came up with a working prototype.

Though developed under the name **Mocha**, this scripting language was first officially known as
**LiveScript** when it began shipping in September 1995 and later renamed to **JavaScript** in
December 1995.

So this is how JavaScript came into existence.
